---
title: Current Project
layout: default
active: Current Project
---

The current project specifies the Pharmacist Care Plan, an electronic care plan document with enhanced medication management content based on the profiles in C-CDA on FHIR implementation guide. The Pharmacist Care Plan is a standardized, interoperable document containing information on medication-related activities, as well as patient-provider shared goals and plans for care. The Pharmacist Care Plan identifies resources and obstacles to patient compliance with the recommended treatment. This type of data is not often captured in a structured and standard format that can be used for research, quality measurement, or public health reporting. The Pharmacist Care Plan supports the strategy of interoperability and information exchange promoting coordination of care among a variety of settings, thus improving the quality of care for the patient. 

The Pharmacist Care Plan serves two needs. It supports the CMS Medicare Part D Enhanced Medicare Therapy Management (MTM) program that started on January 1, 2017. The program launched a pilot in five Medicare Part D regions. Program participants in these regions have the opportunity coordinate care with pharmacy providers on issues related to medication management and adverse outcomes through the MTM model of enhanced care, which includes an individuals goals for therapy and outcomes. 

Secondly, the movement towards value-based payment (VBP) models has recognized pharmacists as an important part of the well-connected care team that addresses the needs of the patient.  In a VBP model, a patients care is coordinated, managed, and supported through documentation of goals and outcomes. The Pharmacist Care Plan provides that documentation for medications.
The current project builds on the work started in the NCPDP Pharmacist eCare Plan, which provides guidance for pharmacist and vendors as they implement the standard CDA R2.1 Care Plan document. The Pharmacist Care Plan electronic document standardizes exchange of information on medications dispensed and medication therapy problems which are not specified in the current Care Plan document type. 

In parallel to the CDA specification development, the project created complementary Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) profiles for the Pharmacist Care Plan, reusing foundational work from the C-CDA on FHIR project. This foundation includes the US Realm Header, FHIR US Core profiles, and the FHIR version of the C-CDA Care Plan.

The project has implemented both the CDA and the FHIR Pharmacist Care Plan specifications in a pilot at Community Care of North Carolina (CCNC). Please note, the FHIR Pharmacist Care Plan is balloted separately from this standard. The burden of redundant data entry is a major factor limiting care planning to less than 15% of the CCNC population, which includes many at risk and care-intensive patients. Resolving redundant data entry and providing standard, structured data will enhance the ability of pharmacists to engage with patients and will improve the patient experience of care through comprehensive medication review with the pharmacists and care managers. Facilities received Pharmacist Care Plan files in both CDA and FHIR formats from implementing EHRs. In addition, participating systems converted CDA-based Pharmacist Care Plans to the FHIR format using provided transformation files.
